MTM-51678 certificate crl settings user guide (#1397)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/device-management-application/managing-device-data-bundle/managing-trusted-certificate-settings.md

Distribution Point).
Revocation reasons and dates are included in the CRL.

In {{< product-c8y-iot >}} terms, if there is a breach at device certificates signed by a trusted certificate, users
can inform the platform about the revoked certificates in two ways:

1. Online revocation :
    The trusted CA maintains the Certificate Revocation Lists with the list of certificate serial numbers that are
   breached and provides this information in the form of a CDP (CRL Distribution Point).
2. Offline revocation :
    The trusted CA doesn't maintain the revocation details of the certificates, in which case, the platform users
   can manually upload the serial numbers of the revoked certificates.

Note that both online and offline CRL checks are by default **unchecked**.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}
Certificate revocation is an irreversible process.
{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

#### To enable online revocation {#to-enable-online-revocation}

1. Click **CRL check** in the upper right corner of the screen.
2. Enable the **Online** option.

![CRl Details](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-crl-option-check.png)

#### To enable offline revocation {#to-enable-offline-revocation}

> 1. Click **CRL check** in the upper right corn#### To enable offline revocationer of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **CRL check** in the upper right corner to enable the offline revocation of the screen.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}

Certificate revocation is an irreversible process.

{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

#### To enable online revocation

1. Click on **CRL check** in right corner of the screen.
2. Enable **Online** option.

![CRl Details](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-crl-option-check.png)

#### To enable offline revocation

1. Click on **CRL check** in right corner of the screen.
2. Check **Offline**
3. To add revoked certificate serial numbers manually, enter the serial number and date in **Revoked certificates list**
   panel.

   Use `+` button to add new entries in below format
   | Field | Description |
   |:------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
   | Serial Number | Needs to be in `Hexadecimal Value`|
   | Date (Optional)       | Date format: `yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'`. Revocation date cannot be a future date. If the date field is empty, current date is considered|
4. Click save to confirm your entries.

#### Bulk import for offline

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Revoked certificate serial numbers can be added in bulk.

> Each file can hold at maximum `5000` revocation entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each file can hold at maximum 5000 revocation entries.
```

> Note: If the date is in future then that CRL entry is skipped. If the date field is empty, then the current date is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
If the date is in the future then the CRL entry is skipped. If the date field is empty, then the current date is used.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}
```

> Multiple upload is allowed.In case of duplicate the latest one (last uploaded one) will be considered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple upload is allowed. In case of a duplicate, the latest one (last one uploaded) is used.
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> To bulk upload, follow the below steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bulk upload, follow the steps below:
```

> 1. Download CSV template from **Revoked certificates list** panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the CSV template from the **Revoked certificates list** panel.
```

2. Fill in all revoked certificate serial numbers and revocation dates.
3. Upload the filled CSV file using file upload.

> #### To download or view the offline CRL file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### To download or view the offline CRL file {#to-download-or-view-the-offline-crl-file}
```

> Go to  **Revoked certificates list** panel and click **Download CRL file**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Revoked certificates list** panel, click **Download CRL file**.
```

---
weight: 41
title: Managing trusted certificate settings
layout: redirect
helpcontent:
  - label: trusted-certificates
    title: Trusted certificates
    content: "This section describes how to fine-tune various certificate configurations."
---

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} allows administrators to fine-tune various certificate configurations.
Currently, CRL (Certificate Revocation List) is supported.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
This section is meant for advance users, for granular control over certificates attributes like CRL, OCSP, Certificate
Policy and PKI.
If you are unfamiliar with these terms it's advisable to leave the defaults.
Bad configuration might result in changes which cant be reversed.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### CRL settings {#crl-settings}

In general, CRL (Certificate Revocation List) contains a list of serial numbers of revoked certificates.
These are issued by certificate authorities (CAs) periodically and published through an endpoint called CDP (CRL
Distribution Point).
Revocation reasons and dates are included in the CRL.

> In {{< product-c8y-iot >}} terms, if there is a breach at device certificates signed by a trusted certificate, users

Reviewer 2: Done. Please have a look now.

can inform the platform about the revoked certificates in two ways:

1. Online revocation :

>     The trusted CA maintains the Certificate Revocation Lists with the list of certificate serial numbers that are

Reviewer 2: Done. Please have a look now.

   breached and provides this information in the form of a CDP (CRL Distribution Point).
2. Offline revocation :
    The trusted CA doesn't maintain the revocation details of the certificates, in which case, the platform users

>    can manually upload the serial numbers of the revoked certificates.

Reviewer 2: Added in the `important` section, please have a look.

Note that both online and offline CRL checks are by default **unchecked**.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}
Certificate revocation is an irreversible process.
{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

#### To enable online revocation {#to-enable-online-revocation}

![CRl Details](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-crl-online-option-check.png)

1. Click **CRL check** in the upper right corner of the screen.
2. Enable the **Online** option.

#### To enable offline revocation {#to-enable-offline-revocation}

![CRl Details](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-crl-offline-option-check.png)

1. Click **CRL check** in the upper right corner to enable the offline revocation of the screen.
2. Check the **Offline** checkbox.
3. To add revoked certificate serial numbers manually, enter the serial number and date in the **Revoked certificates list**
   panel.

   Use the `+` button to add new entries in the format below:
   | Field | Description |
   |:------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|

>    | Serial number | Must be in `Hexadecimal Value`.|

Reviewer 2: Done. Please have a look now.

   | Date (optional)       | Date format: `yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'`. |
4. Click save to confirm your entries.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> If the date is in the future then the CRL entry is skipped. If the date field is empty, then the current date is used.

Reviewer 2: Currently for manual entries the UI date picker doesn't allow to pick a future date. I have rephrased the wordings please have a look.

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> #### Offline bulk import {#offline-bulk-import}

Reviewer 2: Done. Please have a look now.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Revoked certificate serial numbers can be added in bulk.
Each file can hold at maximum 5000 revocation entries.

> Multiple upload is allowed. In case of a duplicate, the latest one (last one uploaded) is used.

Reviewer 3: do you mean, a serial number can be uploaded multiple times or mutiple file uploads are possible?

Reviewer 2: A serial no. can be uploaded multiple times. I have rephrased the wordings please have a look now.

---
weight: 41
title: Managing trusted certificate settings
layout: redirect
helpcontent:
  - label: trusted-certificates
    title: Trusted certificates

>     content: "This section describes how to fine-tune various certificate configurations."

Reviewer 4: If this text should show up in the context help in the product then it should not describe what you describe in this section but what you can do on the respective UI page. Please compare other context help content.

Reviewer 2: Understood. Updated the content and informed to link to UI page help text.

---

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} allows administrators to fine-tune various certificate configurations.
Currently, CRL (Certificate Revocation List) is supported.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> This section is meant for advance users, for granular control over certificates attributes like CRL, OCSP, Certificate

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This section is meant for advance users, for granular control over certificates attributes like CRL, OCSP, Certificate
```
```suggestion
This section targets at advanced users for granular control over certificate attributes like CRL, OCSP, Certificate
```

Reviewer 2: done. please have a look.

>     content: "This section helps the administrator configure the CRL settings (online or offline). If the revoked certificate information is maintained by the issuing CA, then Online check can be chosen. If the CA doesnt maintain the CRL information, offline setup can be chosen. In offline setup, the revoked certificate serial number can either be added manually or can be uploaded in bulk using the file template attached."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    content: "Administrators can configure the Certificate Revocation List (CRL) settings (online or offline). If the revoked certificate information is maintained by the issuing Certificate Authority (CA), the online check option can be selected. If the CA does not maintain the CRL information, the offline setup can be selected. In offline setup, the revoked certificate serial number can either be added manually or can be uploaded in bulk using the file template attached."
```

> Currently, CRL (Certificate Revocation List) is supported.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Currently, Certificate Revocation List (CRL) is supported.
```

Policy and PKI.
If you are unfamiliar with these terms it's advisable to leave the defaults.
Bad configuration might result in changes which cannot be reversed.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### CRL settings {#crl-settings}

> In general, CRL contains a list of serial numbers of revoked certificates.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In general, Certificate Revocation List (CRL) contains a list of serial numbers of revoked certificates.
```

> In general, CRL (Certificate Revocation List) contains a list of serial numbers of revoked certificates.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In general, CRL contains a list of serial numbers of revoked certificates.
```

> These are issued by certificate authorities (CAs) periodically and published through an endpoint called CDP (CRL

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These are issued by Certificate Authorities (CAs) periodically and published through an endpoint called CRL
```

> Distribution Point).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Distribution Point (CDP).
```

Revocation reasons and dates are included in the CRL.

In {{< product-c8y-iot >}} terms, if there is a breach at device certificates signed by a trust anchor, users
can inform the platform about the revoked certificates in two ways:

1. Online revocation :

>    To perform online revocation checks, the device administrator is expected to upload trusted CA

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   To perform online revocation checks, the device administrator is expected to upload a trusted CA
```

Reviewer 2: done.

>    who maintains the Certificate Revocation lists with the list of revoked certificate serial numbers 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   which maintains the CRLs with the list of revoked certificate serial numbers 
```

>    and should provide this information in its CDP (CRL Distribution point) attribute.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   and should provide this information in its CDP attribute.
```

   can manually upload the serial numbers of the revoked certificates.

Note that both online and offline CRL checks are by default **unchecked**.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}
Certificate revocation is an irreversible process. So, offline entries once made cannot be removed.
{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

#### To enable online revocation {#to-enable-online-revocation}

![CRl Details](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-crl-online-option-check.png)

1. Click **CRL check** in the upper right corner of the screen.
2. Enable the **Online** option.

#### To enable offline revocation {#to-enable-offline-revocation}

![CRl Details](/images/users-guide/DeviceManagement/devmgmt-crl-offline-option-check.png)

1. Click **CRL check** in the upper right corner to enable the offline revocation of the screen.
2. Check the **Offline** checkbox.
3. To add revoked certificate serial numbers manually, enter the serial number and date in the **Revoked certificates list**
   panel.

   Use the `+` button to add new entries in the format below:
   | Field | Description | Example |
   |:------------------|:------------------------------------------------------------|:----------|

>    | Serial number | Must be in `Hexadecimal Value`.| 0b8a5b9dd501a88775399b9a048811a3 |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   | Serial number | Must be a hexadecimal value.| 0b8a5b9dd501a88775399b9a048811a3 |
```

   | Date (optional)       | Date format: `yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'`. | 2024-01-17T10:48:51.000Z |

> 4. Click save to confirm your entries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. Click **Save** to confirm your entries.
```

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
If the date field is empty, then the current date is used. Future dates are not allowed.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

#### Offline CRL bulk upload {#offline-crl-bulk-upload}

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Revoked certificate serial numbers can be added in bulk.
Each file can hold at maximum 5000 revocation entries.
If the date is in the future then the CRL entry is skipped.
In case of a duplicate, the latest one (last one uploaded) is used.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> To bulk upload, follow the steps below:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To bulk upload, follow these steps:
```
